---

layout: col-sidebar
title: Command Injection
author: 
contributors: 
permalink: /attacks/Command_Injection
tags: attack, Command Injection
auto-migrated: 1

---

{% include writers.html %}

## Description

Command injection is an attack in which the goal is execution of
arbitrary commands on the host operating system via a vulnerable
application. Command injection attacks are possible when an application
passes unsafe user supplied data (forms, cookies, HTTP headers etc.) to
a system shell. In this attack, the attacker-supplied operating system
commands are usually executed with the privileges of the vulnerable
application. Command injection attacks are possible largely due to
insufficient input validation.

This attack differs from [Code Injection](Code_Injection "wikilink"), in
that code injection allows the attacker to add his own code that is then
executed by the application. In Command Injection, the attacker extends
the default functionality of the application, which execute system
commands, without the necessity of injecting code.

## Examples

### Example 1

The following code is a wrapper around the UNIX command *cat* which
prints the contents of a file to standard output. It is also injectable:

```

#include <stdio.h>
#include <unistd.h>

int main(int argc, char **argv) {
 char cat[] = "cat ";
 char *command;
 size_t commandLength;

 commandLength = strlen(cat) + strlen(argv[1]) + 1;
 command = (char *) malloc(commandLength);
 strncpy(command, cat, commandLength);
 strncat(command, argv[1], (commandLength - strlen(cat)) );

 system(command);
 return (0);
}
```

Used normally, the output is simply the contents of the file requested:

```

$ ./catWrapper Story.txt
When last we left our heroes...
```

However, if we add a semicolon and another command to the end of this
line, the command is executed by catWrapper with no complaint:

    $ ./catWrapper "Story.txt; ls"
    When last we left our heroes...
    Story.txt               doubFree.c              nullpointer.c
    unstosig.c              www*                    a.out*
    format.c                strlen.c                useFree*
    catWrapper*             misnull.c               strlength.c             useFree.c
    commandinjection.c      nodefault.c             trunc.c                 writeWhatWhere.c

If catWrapper had been set to have a higher privilege level than the
standard user, arbitrary commands could be executed with that higher
privilege.

### Example 2

The following simple program accepts a filename as a command line
argument, and displays the contents of the file back to the user. The
program is installed setuid root because it is intended for use as a
learning tool to allow system administrators in-training to inspect
privileged system files without giving them the ability to modify them
or damage the system.

```
       int main(char* argc, char** argv) {
               char cmd[CMD_MAX] = "/usr/bin/cat ";
               strcat(cmd, argv[1]);
               system(cmd);
       }
```

Because the program runs with root privileges, the call to system() also
executes with root privileges. If a user specifies a standard filename,
the call works as expected. However, if an attacker passes a string of
the form ";rm -rf /", then the call to system() fails to execute cat due
to a lack of arguments and then plows on to recursively delete the
contents of the root partition.

### Example 3

The following code from a privileged program uses the environment
variable $APPHOME to determine the application's installation directory,
and then executes an initialization script in that directory.

```
       ...
       char* home=getenv("APPHOME");
       char* cmd=(char*)malloc(strlen(home)+strlen(INITCMD));
       if (cmd) {
               strcpy(cmd,home);
               strcat(cmd,INITCMD);
               execl(cmd, NULL);
       }
       ...
```

As in Example 2, the code in this example allows an attacker to execute
arbitrary commands with the elevated privilege of the application. In
this example, the attacker can modify the environment variable $APPHOME
to specify a different path containing a malicious version of INITCMD.
Because the program does not validate the value read from the
environment, by controlling the environment variable, the attacker can
fool the application into running malicious code.

The attacker is using the environment variable to control the command
that the program invokes, so the effect of the environment is explicit
in this example. We will now turn our attention to what can happen when
the attacker changes the way the command is interpreted.

### Example 4

The code below is from a web-based CGI utility that allows users to
change their passwords. The password update process under NIS includes
running *make* in the /var/yp directory. Note that since the program
updates password records, it has been installed setuid root.

The program invokes make as follows:

```
       system("cd /var/yp && make &> /dev/null");
```

Unlike the previous examples, the command in this example is hardcoded,
so an attacker cannot control the argument passed to system(). However,
since the program does not specify an absolute path for make, and does
not scrub any environment variables prior to invoking the command, the
attacker can modify their $PATH variable to point to a malicious binary
named make and execute the CGI script from a shell prompt. And since the
program has been installed setuid root, the attacker's version of make
now runs with root privileges.

The environment plays a powerful role in the execution of system
commands within programs. Functions like system() and exec() use the
environment of the program that calls them, and therefore attackers have
a potential opportunity to influence the behavior of these calls.

There are many sites that will tell you that Java's Runtime.exec is
exactly the same as C's system function. This is not true. Both allow
you to invoke a new program/process. However, C's system function passes
its arguments to the shell (/bin/sh) to be parsed, whereas Runtime.exec
tries to split the string into an array of words, then executes the
first word in the array with the rest of the words as parameters.
Runtime.exec does NOT try to invoke the shell at any point. The key
difference is that much of the functionality provided by the shell that
could be used for mischief (chaining commands using "&", "&&", "|",
"||", etc, redirecting input and output) would simply end up as a
parameter being passed to the first command, and likely causing a syntax
error, or being thrown out as an invalid parameter.

### Example 5

The following trivial code snippets are vulnerable to OS command
injection on the Unix/Linux platform:

:\* C:

`#include <stdlib.h>`
`#include <stdio.h>`
`#include <string.h>`

`int main(int argc, char **argv)`
`{`
`     char command[256];`

`     if(argc != 2) {`
`          printf("Error: Please enter a program to time!\n");`
`          return -1;`
`     }`

`     memset(&command, 0, sizeof(command));`

`     strcat(command, "time ./");`
`     strcat(command, argv[1]);`

`     system(command);`
`     return 0;`
`}`

:\* If this were a suid binary, consider the case when an attacker
enters the following: 'ls; cat /etc/shadow'. In the Unix environment,
shell commands are separated by a semi-colon. We now can execute system
commands at will\!

:\* Java:

**There are many sites that will tell you that Java's Runtime.exec is
exactly the same as C's system function. This is not true. Both allow
you to invoke a new program/process. However, C's system function passes
its arguments to the shell (/bin/sh) to be parsed, whereas Runtime.exec
tries to split the string into an array of words, then executes the
first word in the array with the rest of the words as parameters.
Runtime.exec does NOT try to invoke the shell at any point. The key
difference is that much of the functionality provided by the shell that
could be used for mischief (chaining commands using "&", "&&", "|",
"||", etc, redirecting input and output) would simply end up as a
parameter being passed to the first command, and likely causing a syntax
error, or being thrown out as an invalid parameter.**

### Example 6

The following PHP code snippet is vulnerable to a command injection
attack:

    <?php
    print("Please specify the name of the file to delete");
    print("<p>");
    $file=$_GET['filename'];
    system("rm $file");
    ?>

The following request and response is an example of a successful attack:

Request

    http://127.0.0.1/delete.php?filename=bob.txt;id

Response

    Please specify the name of the file to delete

    uid=33(www-data) gid=33(www-data) groups=33(www-data)

Sanitizing Input

```
Replace or Ban arguments with “;”
Other shell escapes available
Example:
–  &&
–  |
–  ...
```

## Related [Attacks](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/)

  - [Code Injection](Code_Injection "wikilink")
  - [Blind SQL Injection](Blind_SQL_Injection "wikilink")
  - [Blind XPath Injection](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Blind_XPath_Injection)
  - [LDAP injection](LDAP_injection "wikilink")
  - [Relative Path Traversal](Relative_Path_Traversal "wikilink")

## Related [Controls](https://owasp.org/www-community/controls/)

  - [:Category:Input Validation](:Category:Input_Validation "wikilink")

Ideally, a developer should use existing API for their language. For
example (Java): Rather than use Runtime.exec() to issue a 'mail'
command, use the available Java API located at javax.mail.\*

If no such available API exists, the developer should scrub all input
for malicious characters. Implementing a positive security model would
be most efficient. Typically, it is much easier to define the legal
characters than the illegal characters.

## References

  - [CWE-77: Command
    Injection](http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/77.html)
  - [CWE-78: OS Command
    Injection](http://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/78.html)
  - <http://blog.php-security.org/archives/76-Holes-in-most-preg_match-filters.html>

[Category:OWASP ASDR Project](Category:OWASP_ASDR_Project "wikilink")
[Category:Injection Attack](Category:Injection_Attack "wikilink")
[Category:Injection](https://owasp.org/www-community/Injection_Flaws)
[Category:Attack](Category:Attack "wikilink")