---

layout: col-sidebar
title: Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
author: KirstenS
contributors: Dave Wichers, Davisnw, Paul Petefish, Adar Weidman, Michael Brooks, Ahsan Mir, Dc, D0ubl3 h3lix, Jim Manico, Robert Gilbert, Tgondrom, Pawel Krawczyk, Brandt, A V Minhaz, Kevin Lorenzo, Andrew Smith, Christina Schelin, Ari Elias-Bachrach, Sarciszewski
permalink: /attacks/csrf
tags: attack, CSRF
auto-migrated: 1

---

{% include writers.html %}

## Overview

Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) is an attack that forces an end user
to execute unwanted actions on a web application in which they're
currently authenticated. CSRF attacks specifically target state-changing
requests, not theft of data, since the attacker has no way to see the
response to the forged request. With a little help of social engineering
(such as sending a link via email or chat), an attacker may trick the
users of a web application into executing actions of the attacker's
choosing. If the victim is a normal user, a successful CSRF attack can
force the user to perform state changing requests like transferring
funds, changing their email address, and so forth. If the victim is an
administrative account, CSRF can compromise the entire web application.

## Related Security Activities

### How to Review Code for CSRF Vulnerabilities

See the [OWASP Code Review
Guide](/www-project-code-review-guide) article on how to
[review code for CSRF
vulnerabilities](/www-project-code-review-guide/reviewing-code-for-csrf-issues).

### How to Test for CSRF Vulnerabilities

See the [OWASP Testing
Guide](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/) article on how to
[test for CSRF
vulnerabilities](Testing_for_CSRF_\(OTG-SESS-005\) "wikilink").

### How to Prevent CSRF Vulnerabilities

See the [CSRF Prevention Cheat
Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html) for prevention measures.

Listen to the [OWASP Top Ten CSRF
Podcast](http://www.owasp.org/download/jmanico/owasp_podcast_69.mp3).

Most frameworks have built-in CSRF support such as
[Joomla](http://docs.joomla.org/How_to_add_CSRF_anti-spoofing_to_forms),
[Spring](http://blog.eyallupu.com/2012/04/csrf-defense-in-spring-mvc-31.html),
[Struts](http://web.securityinnovation.com/appsec-weekly/blog/bid/84318/Cross-Site-Request-Forgery-CSRF-Prevention-Using-Struts-2),
[Ruby on
Rails](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/security.html#cross-site-request-forgery-csrf),
[.NET](http://www.troyhunt.com/2010/11/owasp-top-10-for-net-developers-part-5.html)
and others.

Use [OWASP CSRF Guard](:Category:OWASP_CSRFGuard_Project "wikilink") to
add CSRF protection to your Java applications. You can use
[CSRFProtector Project](CSRFProtector_Project "wikilink") to protect
your php applications or any project deployed using Apache Server. There
is a [.Net CSRF Guard](.Net_CSRF_Guard "wikilink") at OWASP as well, but
it's old and doesn't look complete.

John Melton also has an [excellent blog
post](http://www.jtmelton.com/2010/05/16/the-owasp-top-ten-and-esapi-part-6-cross-site-request-forgery-csrf/)
describing how to use the native anti-CSRF functionality of the [OWASP
ESAPI](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Enterprise_Security_API).

## Description

CSRF is an attack that tricks the victim into submitting a malicious
request. It inherits the identity and privileges of the victim to
perform an undesired function on the victim's behalf. For most sites,
browser requests automatically include any credentials associated with
the site, such as the user's session cookie, IP address, Windows domain
credentials, and so forth. Therefore, if the user is currently
authenticated to the site, the site will have no way to distinguish
between the forged request sent by the victim and a legitimate request
sent by the victim.

CSRF attacks target functionality that causes a state change on the
server, such as changing the victim's email address or password, or
purchasing something. Forcing the victim to retrieve data doesn't
benefit an attacker because the attacker doesn't receive the response,
the victim does. As such, CSRF attacks target state-changing requests.

It's sometimes possible to store the CSRF attack on the vulnerable site
itself. Such vulnerabilities are called "stored CSRF flaws". This can be
accomplished by simply storing an IMG or IFRAME tag in a field that
accepts HTML, or by a more complex cross-site scripting attack. If the
attack can store a CSRF attack in the site, the severity of the attack
is amplified. In particular, the likelihood is increased because the
victim is more likely to view the page containing the attack than some
random page on the Internet. The likelihood is also increased because
the victim is sure to be authenticated to the site already.

### Synonyms

CSRF attacks are also known by a number of other names, including XSRF,
"Sea Surf", Session Riding, Cross-Site Reference Forgery, and Hostile
Linking. Microsoft refers to this type of attack as a One-Click attack
in their threat modeling process and many places in their online
documentation.

### Prevention measures that do **NOT** work

## Using a secret cookie

Remember that all cookies, even the *secret* ones, will be submitted
with every request. All authentication tokens will be submitted
regardless of whether or not the end-user was tricked into submitting
the request. Furthermore, session identifiers are simply used by the
application container to associate the request with a specific session
object. The session identifier does not verify that the end-user
intended to submit the request.

## Only accepting POST requests

Applications can be developed to only accept POST requests for the
execution of business logic. The misconception is that since the
attacker cannot construct a malicious link, a CSRF attack cannot be
executed. Unfortunately, this logic is incorrect. There are numerous
methods in which an attacker can trick a victim into submitting a forged
POST request, such as a simple form hosted in an attacker's Website with
hidden values. This form can be triggered automatically by JavaScript or
can be triggered by the victim who thinks the form will do something
else.

A number of flawed ideas for defending against CSRF attacks have been
developed over time. Here are a few that we recommend you avoid.

## Multi-Step Transactions

Multi-Step transactions are not an adequate prevention of CSRF. As long
as an attacker can predict or deduce each step of the completed
transaction, then CSRF is possible.

## URL Rewriting

This might be seen as a useful CSRF prevention technique as the attacker
cannot guess the victim's session ID. However, the user’s session ID is
exposed in the URL. We don't recommend fixing one security flaw by
introducing another.

## HTTPS

HTTPS by itself does nothing to defend against CSRF.

However, HTTPS should be considered a prerequisite for any preventative
measures to be trustworthy.

## Examples

### How does the attack work?

There are numerous ways in which an end user can be tricked into loading
information from or submitting information to a web application. In
order to execute an attack, we must first understand how to generate a
valid malicious request for our victim to execute. Let us consider the
following example: Alice wishes to transfer $100 to Bob using the
*bank.com* web application that is vulnerable to CSRF. Maria, an
attacker, wants to trick Alice into sending the money to her instead.
The attack will comprise the following steps:

1.  building an exploit URL or script
2.  tricking Alice into executing the action with [social
    engineering](Social_Engineering "wikilink")

#### GET scenario

If the application was designed to primarily use GET requests to
transfer parameters and execute actions, the money transfer operation
might be reduced to a request like:

`GET http://bank.com/transfer.do?acct=BOB&amount=100 HTTP/1.1`

Maria now decides to exploit this web application vulnerability using
Alice as her victim. Maria first constructs the following exploit URL
which will transfer $100,000 from Alice's account to her account. She
takes the original command URL and replaces the beneficiary name with
herself, raising the transfer amount significantly at the same time:

`http://bank.com/transfer.do?acct=MARIA&amount=100000`

The [social engineering](Social_Engineering "wikilink") aspect of the
attack tricks Alice into loading this URL when she's logged into the
bank application. This is usually done with one of the following
techniques:

  - sending an unsolicited email with HTML content
  - planting an exploit URL or script on pages that are likely to be
    visited by the victim while they are also doing online banking

The exploit URL can be disguised as an ordinary link, encouraging the
victim to click it:

`<a href="http://bank.com/transfer.do?acct=MARIA&amount=100000">View my Pictures!</a>`

Or as a 0x0 fake image:

`<img src="http://bank.com/transfer.do?acct=MARIA&amount=100000" width="0" height="0" border="0">`

If this image tag were included in the email, Alice wouldn't see
anything. However, the browser *will still* submit the request to
bank.com without any visual indication that the transfer has taken
place.

A real life example of CSRF attack on an application using GET was a
[uTorrent
exploit](https://www.ghacks.net/2008/01/17/dos-vulnerability-in-utorrent-and-bittorrent/)
from 2008 that was used on a mass scale to download malware.

#### POST scenario

The only difference between GET and POST attacks is how the attack is
being executed by the victim. Let's assume the bank now uses POST and
the vulnerable request looks like this:

`POST http://bank.com/transfer.do HTTP/1.1`

`acct=BOB&amount=100`

Such a request cannot be delivered using standard A or IMG tags, but can
be delivered using a FORM tags:

	<form action="http://bank.com/transfer.do" method="POST">

	<input type="hidden" name="acct" value="MARIA"/>
	<input type="hidden" name="amount" value="100000"/>
	<input type="submit" value="View my pictures"/>

	</form>

This form will require the user to click on the submit button, but this
can be also executed automatically using JavaScript:

	<body onload="document.forms[0].submit()">

	`<form...`

#### Other HTTP methods

Modern web application APIs frequently use other HTTP methods, such as
PUT or DELETE. Let's assume the vulnerable bank uses PUT that takes a
JSON block as an argument:

	`PUT http://bank.com/transfer.do HTTP/1.1`

	`{ "acct":"BOB", "amount":100 }`

Such requests can be executed with JavaScript embedded into an exploit
page:

	<script>
	function put() {
	    var x = new XMLHttpRequest();
	    x.open("PUT","http://bank.com/transfer.do",true);
	    x.setRequestHeader("Content-Type", "application/json");
	    x.send(JSON.stringify({"acct":"BOB", "amount":100})); 
	}
	</script>

	<body onload="put()">

Fortunately, this request will **not** be executed by modern web
browsers thanks to [same-origin policy](Same-Origin_Policy "wikilink")
restrictions. This restriction is enabled by default unless the target
web site explicitly opens up cross-origin requests from the attacker's
(or everyone's) origin by using
[CORS](HTML5_Security_Cheat_Sheet#Cross_Origin_Resource_Sharing "wikilink")
with the following header:

`Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`

## Related [Attacks](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/)

  - [Cross-site Scripting
    (XSS)](Cross-site_Scripting_\(XSS\) "wikilink")
  - [Cross Site History Manipulation
    (XSHM)](Cross_Site_History_Manipulation_\(XSHM\) "wikilink")

## Related [Controls](https://owasp.org/www-community/controls/)

  - Add a per-request nonce to the URL and all forms in addition to the
    standard session. This is also referred to as "form keys". Many
    frameworks (e.g., Drupal.org 4.7.4+) either have or are starting to
    include this type of protection "built-in" to every form so the
    programmer does not need to code this protection manually.
  - Add a hash (session id, function name, server-side secret) to all
    forms.
  - For .NET, add a session identifier to ViewState with MAC (described
    in detail in [the DotNet Security Cheat
    Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/DotNet_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html#asp-net-web-forms-guidance)).
  - Checking the referrer header in the client's HTTP request can
    prevent CSRF attacks. Ensuring that the HTTP request has come from
    the original site means that attacks from other sites will not
    function. It is very common to see referrer header checks used on
    embedded network hardware due to memory limitations.
      - XSS can be used to bypass both referrer and token based checks
        simultaneously. For instance, the [Samy
        worm](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samy_%28computer_worm%29)
        used an [XHR](XHR "wikilink") to obtain the CSRF token to forge
        requests.
  - "Although CSRF is fundamentally a problem with the web application,
    not the user, users can help protect their accounts at poorly
    designed sites by logging off the site before visiting another, or
    clearing their browser's cookies at the end of each browser
    session."
    --http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery\#_note-1
  - [Tokenizing](Tokenizing "wikilink")

## References

  - OWASP [Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) Prevention Cheat
    Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html)

<!-- end list -->

  - [The Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF/XSRF)
    FAQ](http://www.cgisecurity.com/articles/csrf-faq.shtml)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *quote: "This paper serves as a living document for Cross-Site
    Request Forgery issues. This document will serve as a repository of
    information from existing papers, talks, and mailing list postings
    and will be updated as new information is discovered."*

<!-- end list -->

  - [Testing for CSRF](Testing_for_CSRF_\(OWASP-SM-005\) "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    CSRF (aka Session riding) paper from the OWASP Testing Guide
    project.

<!-- end list -->

  - [CSRF Vulnerability: A 'Sleeping
    Giant'](http://www.darkreading.com/document.asp?doc_id=107651&WT.svl=news1_2)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Overview Paper

<!-- end list -->

  - [Client Side Protection against Session
    Riding](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:RequestRodeo-MartinJohns.pdf)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Martin Johns and Justus Winter's interesting paper and presentation
    for the 4th OWASP AppSec Conference which described potential
    techniques that browsers could adopt to automatically provide CSRF
    protection - [PDF
    paper](http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Image:RequestRodeo-MartinJohns.pdf)

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP CSRF Guard](:Category:OWASP_CSRFGuard_Project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    J2EE, .NET, and PHP Filters which append a unique request token to
    each form and link in the HTML response in order to provide
    universal coverage against CSRF throughout your entire application.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP CSRF Protector](CSRFProtector_Project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Anti CSRF method to mitigate CSRF in web applications. Currently
    implemented as a PHP library & Apache 2.x.x module

<!-- end list -->

  - [A Most-Neglected Fact About Cross Site Request Forgery
    (CSRF)](http://yehg.net/lab/pr0js/view.php/A_Most-Neglected_Fact_About_CSRF.pdf)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Aung Khant, <http://yehg.net>, explained the danger and impact of
    CSRF with imperiling scenarios.

<!-- end list -->

  - [OWASP CSRF Tester](:Category:OWASP_CSRFTester_Project "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    The OWASP CSRFTester gives developers the ability to test their
    applications for CSRF flaws.

<!-- end list -->

  - [Pinata-CSRF-Tool: CSRF POC
    tool](http://code.google.com/p/pinata-csrf-tool/)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Pinata makes it easy to create Proof of Concept CSRF pages. Assists
    in Application Vulnerability Assessment.

