---

title: DOM Based XSS
layout: col-sidebar
author:
contributors:
auto-migrated: 1
permalink: /attacks/DOM_Based_XSS

---

{% include writers.html %}

## DOM Based XSS

### Definition

DOM Based [XSS](XSS "wikilink") (or as it is called in some texts,
“type-0 XSS”) is an XSS attack wherein the attack payload is executed
as a result of modifying the DOM “environment” in the victim’s browser
used by the original client side script, so that the client side code
runs in an “unexpected” manner. That is, the page itself (the HTTP
response that is) does not change, but the client side code contained in
the page executes differently due to the malicious modifications that
have occurred in the DOM environment.

This is in contrast to other XSS attacks ([stored or
reflected](XSS#Stored_and_Reflected_XSS_Attacks "wikilink")), wherein
the attack payload is placed in the response page (due to a server side
flaw).

Please note research from David Wichers seeking to reclassify DOM XSS
more strictly as CLIENT SIDE XSS.
<https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Types_of_Cross-Site_Scripting#DOM_Based_XSS_.28AKA_Type-0.29>

### Example

Suppose the following code is used to create a form to let the user
choose his/her preferred language. A default language is also provided
in the query string, as the parameter “default”.

    …

    Select your language:

    <select><script>

    document.write("<OPTION value=1>"+document.location.href.substring(document.location.href.indexOf("default=")+8)+"</OPTION>");

    document.write("<OPTION value=2>English</OPTION>");

    </script></select>
    …

The page is invoked with a URL such as:

    http://www.some.site/page.html?default=French

A DOM Based XSS attack against this page can be accomplished by sending
the following URL to a victim:

    http://www.some.site/page.html?default=<script>alert(document.cookie)</script>

When the victim clicks on this link, the browser sends a request for:

    /page.html?default=<script>alert(document.cookie)</script>

to www.some.site. The server responds with the page containing the above
Javascript code. The browser creates a DOM object for the page, in which
the document.location object contains the string:

    http://www.some.site/page.html?default=<script>alert(document.cookie)</script>

The original Javascript code in the page does not expect the default
parameter to contain HTML markup, and as such it simply echoes it into
the page (DOM) at runtime. The browser then renders the resulting page
and executes the attacker’s script:

    alert(document.cookie)

Note that the HTTP response sent from the server does not contain the
attacker’s payload. This payload manifests itself at the client-side
script at runtime, when a flawed script accesses the DOM variable
document.location and assumes it is not malicious.

### Advanced Techniques and Derivatives

In the example above, while the payload was not embedded by the server
in the HTTP response, it still arrived at the server as part of an HTTP
request, and thus the attack could be detected at the server side. The
[“DOM Based XSS”
paper](http://www.webappsec.org/projects/articles/071105.shtml) (\[1\])
details a technique to avoid server side detection. It also describes
several other possible locations for the payload, besides
document.location.

The technique to avoid sending the payload to the server hinges on the
fact that URI fragments (the part in the URI after the “\#”) is not sent
to the server by the browser. Thus, any client side code that
references, say, document.location, may be vulnerable to an attack which
uses fragments, and in such case the payload is never sent to the
server. For example, the above DOM based XSS can be modified into:

    http://www.some.site/page.html#default=<script>alert(document.cookie)</script>

which mounts the same attack without it being seen by the server (which
will simply see a request for page.html without any URL parameters).

In December 2006, Stefano Di Paola and Giorgio Fedon described a
[universal XSS attack against the Acrobat PDF
plugin](http://events.ccc.de/congress/2006/Fahrplan/attachments/1158-Subverting_Ajax.pdf)
(\[4\]). This attack applied the fragment variant of DOM based XSS to
PDF documents. The researchers discovered that a PDF document served to
the browser, when rendered by the Acrobat plugin, may end up executing
part of the fragment as Javascript. Since the Javascript is executed in
the context (DOM) of the current site, all an attacker needed to exploit
this flaw was to simply find a PDF link somewhere on the site for the
XSS condition to be met. If the attacker then tricked a user into
clicking on (or submitting) a link like:

    http://www.some.site/somefile.pdf#somename=javascript:attackers_script_here

then a victim using an un-patched Acrobat reader would succumb to the
attack. Adobe patched their reader after they were made aware of this
flaw, but if not all users have downloaded the patch then those users
are still vulnerable to this type of attack.

Ivan Ristic did some research and proposed some server side defenses
against this type of attack in his presentation "Protecting Web
Applications from Universal PDF XSS: A discussion of how weird the web
application security world has become" at the [2007 OWASP Europe AppSec
Conference](OWASP_AppSec_Europe_2007_-_Italy "wikilink") in Milan. His
presentation (\[5\]) can be downloaded
[here](http://www.owasp.org/images/c/c2/OWASPAppSec2007Milan_ProtectingWebAppsfromUniversalPDFXSS.ppt).

### Extensions

Ory Segal gave an example (section “Javascript flow manipulation” in
\[2\]) of how a target page can be framed and the frame’s parent (in the
attacker’s control) can be devised in such manner that it affects the
execution of the target page in a way desired by the attacker. The
technique shows how DOM manipulation can be useful to modify the
execution flow of scripts in the target page.

Kuza55 and Stefano Di Paola discussed more ways in which the concept of
DOM manipulation and DOM based XSS can be extended in \[3\].

### Testing Tools and Techniques

Minded Security has been doing some significant research into DOM based
XSS. They are working on two projects to help with DOM Based XSS:

1\. The DOMinator Tool - A commercial tool based on the Firefox browser
with modified Spidermonkey Javascript engine that helps testers identify
and verify DOM based XSS flaws

See: <https://dominator.mindedsecurity.com/>
(https://github.com/wisec/DOMinator for the open source part)

2\. The DOM XSS Wiki - The start of a Knowledgebase for defining sources
of attacker controlled inputs and sinks which could potentially
introduce DOM Based XSS issues. Its very immature as of 11/17/2011.
Please contribute to this wiki if you know of more dangerous sinks
and/or safe alternatives\!\!

See: <http://code.google.com/p/domxsswiki/>

3\. DOM Snitch - An experimental Chrome extension that enables
developers and testers to identify insecure practices commonly found in
client-side code. From Google.

See: <http://code.google.com/p/domsnitch/>

### Defense Techniques

See:
<https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/DOM_based_XSS_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html>

### References

\[1\] “DOM Based Cross Site Scripting or XSS of the Third Kind” (WASC
writeup), Amit Klein, July 2005

<http://www.webappsec.org/projects/articles/071105.shtml>

\[2\] “JavaScript Code Flow Manipulation, and a real world example
advisory - Adobe Flex 3 Dom-Based XSS” (Watchfire blog), Ory Segal, June
17th, 2008

<http://blog.watchfire.com/wfblog/2008/06/javascript-code.html>

\[3\] “Attacking Rich Internet Applications” (RUXCON 2008 presentation),
Kuza55 and Stefano Di Paola, November 2008

<http://www.ruxcon.org.au/files/2008/Attacking_Rich_Internet_Applications.pdf>

\[4\] “Subverting Ajax” (23C3 presentation), Stefano Di Paola and
Giorgio Fedon, December 2006

<http://events.ccc.de/congress/2006/Fahrplan/attachments/1158-Subverting_Ajax.pdf>

\[5\] "Protecting Web Applications from Universal PDF XSS" (2007 OWASP
Europe AppSec presentation) Ivan Ristic, May 2007

<http://www.owasp.org/images/c/c2/OWASPAppSec2007Milan_ProtectingWebAppsfromUniversalPDFXSS.ppt>

\[6\] OWASP Testing Guide

[Testing_for_DOM-based_Cross_site_scripting_(OWASP-DV-003)](Testing_for_DOM-based_Cross_site_scripting_\(OWASP-DV-003\) "wikilink")
