---

layout: col-sidebar
title: Session hijacking attack
author: 
contributors: 
permalink: /attacks/Session_hijacking_attack
tags: attack, Session hijacking attack
auto-migrated: 1

---

{% include writers.html %}

## Description

The Session Hijacking attack consists of the exploitation of the web
session control mechanism, which is normally managed for a session
token.

Because http communication uses many different TCP connections, the web
server needs a method to recognize every user’s connections. The most
useful method depends on a token that the Web Server sends to the client
browser after a successful client authentication. A session token is
normally composed of a string of variable width and it could be used in
different ways, like in the URL, in the header of the http requisition
as a cookie, in other parts of the header of the http request, or yet in
the body of the http requisition.

The Session Hijacking attack compromises the session token by stealing
or predicting a valid session token to gain unauthorized access to the
Web Server.

The session token could be compromised in different ways; the most
common are:

  - Predictable session token;
  - Session Sniffing;
  - Client-side attacks (XSS, malicious JavaScript Codes, Trojans, etc);
  - [Man-in-the-middle attack](Man-in-the-middle_attack "wikilink")
  - [Man-in-the-browser attack](Man-in-the-browser_attack "wikilink")

## Examples

### Example 1

#### Session Sniffing

In the example, as we can see, first the attacker uses a sniffer to
capture a valid token session called “Session ID”, then he uses the
valid token session to gain unauthorized access to the Web Server.

<center>

![Image:Session_Hijacking_3.JPG](Session_Hijacking_3.JPG
"Image:Session_Hijacking_3.JPG")

Figure 2. Manipulating the token session executing the session hijacking
attack.

</center>

### Example 2

#### Cross-site script attack

The attacker can compromise the session token by using malicious code or
programs running at the client-side. The example shows how the attacker
could use an XSS attack to steal the session token. If an attacker sends
a crafted link to the victim with the malicious JavaScript, when the
victim clicks on the link, the JavaScript will run and complete the
instructions made by the attacker. The example in figure 3 uses an XSS
attack to show the cookie value of the current session; using the same
technique it's possible to create a specific JavaScript code that will
send the cookie to the attacker.

    <SCRIPT>

    alert(document.cookie);

    </SCRIPT>

<center>

![Image:Code_Injection.JPG](Code_Injection.JPG
"Image:Code_Injection.JPG")

Figure 3. Code injection.

</center>

**Other Examples** The following attacks intercept the information
exchange between the client and the server:

  - [Man-in-the-middle attack](Man-in-the-middle_attack "wikilink")
  - [Man-in-the-browser attack](Man-in-the-browser_attack "wikilink")

## Related [Threat Agents](Threat_Agents "wikilink")

  - [:Category: Authorization](:Category:_Authorization "wikilink")

## Related [Attacks](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/)

  - [Man-in-the-middle attack](Man-in-the-middle_attack "wikilink")
  - [Man-in-the-browser attack](Man-in-the-browser_attack "wikilink")
  - [Session Prediction](Session_Prediction "wikilink")

## Related [Vulnerabilities](https://owasp.org/www-community/vulnerabilities/)

  - [:Category:Input Validation
    Vulnerability](:Category:Input_Validation_Vulnerability "wikilink")

## Related [Controls](https://owasp.org/www-community/controls/)

  - [:Category:Session
    Management](:Category:Session_Management "wikilink")

## References

  - <http://www.iss.net/security_center/advice/Exploits/TCP/session_hijacking/default.htm>
  - <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_cookie>

[Category:OWASP ASDR Project](Category:OWASP_ASDR_Project "wikilink")
[Category:Exploitation of
Authentication](Category:Exploitation_of_Authentication "wikilink")
[Category:Attack](Category:Attack "wikilink")
