---

title: Application Threat Modeling
layout: col-sidebar
author:
contributors:
tags:
auto-migrated: 1
permalink: /Application_Threat_Modeling

---

{% include writers.html %}

Threat modelling works to identify, communicate, and understand threats
and mitigations within the context of protecting something of value.

Threat modelling can be applied to a wide range of things, including
software, applications, systems, networks, distributed systems, things
in the internet of things, business processes, etc. There are very few
technical products which cannot be threat modelled; more or less
rewarding, depending on how much it communicates, or interacts, with the
world. Threat modelling can be done at any stage of development,
preferably early - so that the findings can inform the design.

## What

Most of the time, a threat model includes:

  - A description / design / model of what you’re worried about
  - A list of assumptions that can be checked or challenged in the
    future as the threat landscape changes
  - A list of potential threats to the system
  - A list of actions to be taken for each threat
  - A way of validating the model and threats, and verification of
    success of actions taken

Our motto is: Threat modelling: the sooner the better, but never too
late.

## Why

The inclusion of threat modelling in the SDLC can help

  - Build a secure design
  - Efficient investment of resources; appropriately prioritize
    security, development, and other tasks
  - Bring Security and Development together to collaborate on a shared
    understanding, informing development of the system
  - Identify threats and compliance requirements, and evaluate their
    risk
  - Define and build required controls.
  - Balance risks, controls, and usability
  - Identify where building a control is unnecessary, based on
    acceptable risk
  - Document threats and mitigation
  - Ensure business requirements (or goals) are adequately protected in
    the face of a malicious actor, accidents, or other causes of impact
  - Identification of security test cases / security test scenarios to
    test the security requirements

## 4 Questions

Most threat model methodologies answer one or more of the following
questions in the technical steps which they follow:

### 1\. What are we building?

As a starting point you need to define the scope of the Threat Model. To
do that you need to understand the application you are building,
examples of helpful techniques are:

  - Architecture diagrams
  - Dataflow transitions
  - Data classifications
  - You will also need to gather people from different roles with
    sufficient technical and risk awareness to agree on the framework to
    be used during the Threat Modelling exercise.

### 2\. What can go wrong?

This is a "research" activity in which you want to find the main threats
that apply to your application. There are many ways to approach the
question, including brainstorming or using a structure to help think it
through. Structures that can help include STRIDE, Kill Chains, CAPEC and
others.

### 3\. What are we going to do about that?

In this phase you turn your findings into specific actions.
See [Threat_Modeling_Outputs](Threat_Modeling_Outputs)

### 4\. Did we do a good enough job?

Finally, carry out a retrospective activity over the work you have done
to check quality, feasibility, progress, and/or planning.

## Process

The technical steps in threat modelling involve answering questions: -
What are we working on - What can go wrong - What will we do with the
findings - Did we do a good job? The work to answer these questions is
embedded in some sort of process, ranging from incredibly informal
Kanban with Post-its on the wall to strictly structured waterfalls.

The effort, work, and timeframes spent on threat modelling relate to the
process in which engineering is happening and products/services are
delivered. The idea that threat modelling is waterfall or ‘heavyweight’
is based on threat modelling approaches from the early 2000s. Modern
threat modelling building blocks fit well into agile and are in wide
use.

#### When to threat model

When the system changes, you need to consider the security impact of
those changes. Sometimes those impacts are not obvious.

Threat modelling integrates into Agile by asking “what are we working
on, now, in this sprint/spike/feature?”; trying to answer this can be an
important aspect of managing security debt, but trying to address it
per-sprint is overwhelming. When the answer is that the system’s
architecture isn’t changing, no new processes or dataflows are being
introduced, and there are no changes to the data structures being
transmitted, then it is unlikely that the answers to ‘what can go wrong’
will change. When one or more of those changes, then it’s useful to
examine what can go wrong as part of the current work package, and to
understand designs trade-offs you can make, and to understand what
you’re going to address in this sprint and in the next one. The
question of did we do a good job is split: the “did we address these
threats” is part of sprint delivery or merging, while the broader
question is an occasional saw-sharpening task.

After a security incident, going back and checking the threat models can
be an important process.

#### Threat modelling: engagement versus review

Threat modelling at a whiteboard can be a fluid exchange of ideas
between diverse participants. Using the whiteboard to construct a model
that participants can rapidly change based on identified threats is a
high-return activity. The models created there (or elsewhere) can be
meticulously transferred to a high-quality archival representation
designed for review and presentation. Those models are useful for
documenting what’s been decided and sharing those decisions widely
within an organization. These two activities are both threat modelling,
yet quite different.

#### Validating assumptions

## Learning More

#### Agile approaches

  - Main agile threat modelling page
  - Specific agile approach1 TM page
  - Specific agile approach2 TM page

#### Waterfall approaches

  - Main waterfall TM page
