---

title: Broken Access Control
layout: col-sidebar
author:
contributors:
tags:
auto-migrated: 1
permalink: /Broken_Access_Control

---

{% include writers.html %}

## Description

Access control, sometimes called authorization, is how a web application
grants access to content and functions to some users and not others.
These checks are performed after authentication, and govern what
‘authorized’ users are allowed to do. Access control sounds like a
simple problem but is insidiously difficult to implement correctly. A
web application’s access control model is closely tied to the content
and functions that the site provides. In addition, the users may fall
into a number of groups or roles with different abilities or privileges.

Developers frequently underestimate the difficulty of implementing a
reliable access control mechanism. Many of these schemes were not
deliberately designed, but have simply evolved along with the web site.
In these cases, access control rules are inserted in various locations
all over the code. As the site nears deployment, the ad hoc collection
of rules becomes so unwieldy that it is almost impossible to understand.

Many of these flawed access control schemes are not difficult to
discover and exploit. Frequently, all that is required is to craft a
request for functions or content that should not be granted. Once a flaw
is discovered, the consequences of a flawed access control scheme can be
devastating. In addition to viewing unauthorized content, an attacker
might be able to change or delete content, perform unauthorized
functions, or even take over site administration.

One specific type of access control problem is administrative interfaces
that allow site administrators to manage a site over the Internet. Such
features are frequently used to allow site administrators to efficiently
manage users, data, and content on their site. In many instances, sites
support a variety of administrative roles to allow finer granularity of
site administration. Due to their power, these interfaces are frequently
prime targets for attack by both outsiders and insiders.

## Environments Affected

All known web servers, application servers, and web application
environments are susceptible to at least some of these issues. Even if a
site is completely static, if it is not configured properly, hackers
could gain access to sensitive files and deface the site, or perform
other mischief.

## Examples and References

- [http://www.infosecuritymag.com/2002/jun/insecurity.shtml](http://www.infosecuritymag.com/2002/jun/insecurity.shtml)

## How to Determine If You Are Vulnerable

Virtually all sites have some access control requirements. Therefore, an
access control policy should be clearly documented. Also, the design
documentation should capture an approach for enforcing this policy. If
this documentation does not exist, then a site is likely to be
vulnerable.

The code that implements the access control policy should be checked.
Such code should be well structured, modular, and most likely
centralized. A detailed code review should be performed to validate the
correctness of the access control implementation. In addition,
penetration testing can be quite useful in determining if there are
problems in the access control scheme.

Find out how your website is administrated. You want to discover how
changes are made to webpages, where they are tested, and how they are
transported to the production server. If administrators can make changes
remotely, you want to know how those communications channels are
protected. Carefully review each interface to make sure that only
authorized administrators are allowed access. Also, if there are
different types or groupings of data that can be accessed through the
interface, make sure that only authorized data can be accessed as well.
If such interfaces employ external commands, review the use of such
commands to make sure they are not subject to any of the command
injection flaws described in this paper.

## How to Protect Yourself

The most important step is to think through an application’s access
control requirements and capture it in a web application security
policy. We strongly recommend the use of an access control matrix to
define the access control rules. Without documenting the security
policy, there is no definition of what it means to be secure for that
site. The policy should document what types of users can access the
system, and what functions and content each of these types of users
should be allowed to access. The access control mechanism should be
extensively tested to be sure that there is no way to bypass it. This
testing requires a variety of accounts and extensive attempts to access
unauthorized content or functions.

Some specific access control issues include:

  - **Insecure Id’s** – Most web sites use some form of id, key, or
    index as a way to reference users, roles, content, objects, or
    functions. If an attacker can guess these id’s, and the supplied
    values are not validated to ensure the are authorized for the
    current user, the attacker can exercise the access control scheme
    freely to see what they can access. Web applications should not rely
    on the secrecy of any id’s for protection.
  - **Forced Browsing Past Access Control Checks** – many sites require
    users to pass certain checks before being granted access to certain
    URLs that are typically ‘deeper’ down in the site. These checks must
    not be bypassable by a user that simply skips over the page with the
    security check.
  - **Path Traversal** – This attack involves providing relative path
    information (e.g., “../../target_dir/target_file”) as part of a
    request for information. Such attacks try to access files that are
    normally not directly accessible by anyone, or would otherwise be
    denied if requested directly. Such attacks can be submitted in URLs
    as well as any other input that ultimately accesses a file (i.e.,
    system calls and shell commands).
  - **File Permissions** – Many web and application servers rely on
    access control lists provided by the file system of the underlying
    platform. Even if almost all data is stored on backend servers,
    there are always files stored locally on the web and application
    server that should not be publicly accessible, particularly
    configuration files, default files, and scripts that are installed
    on most web and application servers. Only files that are
    specifically intended to be presented to web users should be marked
    as readable using the OS’s permissions mechanism, most directories
    should not be readable, and very few files, if any, should be marked
    executable.
  - **Client Side Caching** – Many users access web applications from
    shared computers located in libraries, schools, airports, and other
    public access points. Browsers frequently cache web pages that can
    be accessed by attackers to gain access to otherwise inaccessible
    parts of sites. Developers should use multiple mechanisms, including
    HTTP headers and meta tags, to be sure that pages containing
    sensitive information are not cached by user’s browsers.

There are some application layer security components that can assist in
the proper enforcement of some aspects of your access control scheme.
Again, as for parameter validation, to be effective, the component must
be configured with a strict definition of what access requests are valid
for your site. When using such a component, you must be careful to
understand exactly what access control assistance the component can
provide for you given your site’s security policy, and what part of your
access control policy that the component cannot deal with, and therefore
must be properly dealt with in your own custom code.

For administrative functions, the primary recommendation is to never
allow administrator access through the front door of your site if at all
possible. Given the power of these interfaces, most organizations should
not accept the risk of making these interfaces available to outside
attack. If remote administrator access is absolutely required, this can
be accomplished without opening the front door of the site. The use of
VPN technology could be used to provide an outside administrator access
to the internal company (or site) network from which an administrator
can then access the site through a protected backend connection.
