---

title: Improper Error Handling
layout: col-sidebar
author:
contributors: Jeremy Ferragamo, Wichers, Jim Bird, kingthorin
tags:
permalink: /Improper_Error_Handling

---

{% include writers.html %}

## Description

Improper handling of errors can introduce a variety of security problems
for a web site. The most common problem is when detailed internal error
messages such as stack traces, database dumps, and error codes are
displayed to the user (hacker). These messages reveal implementation
details that should never be revealed. Such details can provide hackers
important clues on potential flaws in the site and such messages are
also disturbing to normal users.

Web applications frequently generate error conditions during normal
operation. Out of memory, null pointer exceptions, system call failure,
database unavailable, network timeout, and hundreds of other common
conditions can cause errors to be generated. These errors must be
handled according to a well thought out scheme that will provide a
meaningful error message to the user, diagnostic information to the site
maintainers, and no useful information to an attacker.

Even when error messages don’t provide a lot of detail, inconsistencies
in such messages can still reveal important clues on how a site works,
and what information is present under the covers. For example, when a
user tries to access a file that does not exist, the error message
typically indicates, “file not found”. When accessing a file that the
user is not authorized for, it indicates, “access denied”. The user is
not supposed to know the file even exists, but such inconsistencies will
readily reveal the presence or absence of inaccessible files or the
site’s directory structure.

One common security problem caused by improper error handling is the
fail-open security check. All security mechanisms should deny access
until specifically granted, not grant access until denied, which is a
common reason why fail open errors occur. Other errors can cause the
system to crash or consume significant resources, effectively denying or
reducing service to legitimate users.

Good error handling mechanisms should be able to handle any feasible set
of inputs, while enforcing proper security. Simple error messages should
be produced and logged so that their cause, whether an error in the site
or a hacking attempt, can be reviewed. Error handling should not focus
solely on input provided by the user, but should also include any errors
that can be generated by internal components such as system calls,
database queries, or any other internal functions.

## Environments Affected

All web servers, application servers, and web application environments
are susceptible to error handling problems.

## Examples and References

- [OWASP Testing Guide]/www-project-web-security-testing-guide)

## How to Determine If You Are Vulnerable

Typically, simple testing can determine how your site responds to
various kinds of input errors. More thorough testing is usually required
to cause internal errors to occur and see how the site behaves.

Another valuable approach is to have a detailed code review that
searches the code for error handling logic. Error handling should be
consistent across the entire site and each piece should be a part of a
well-designed scheme. A code review will reveal how the system is
intended to handle various types of errors. If you find that there is no
organization to the error-handling scheme or that there appear to be
several different schemes, there is quite likely a problem.

## How to Protect Yourself

A specific policy for how to handle errors should be documented,
including the types of errors to be handled and for each, what
information is going to be reported back to the user, and what
information is going to be logged. All developers need to understand the
policy and ensure that their code follows it.

In the implementation, ensure that the site is built to gracefully
handle all possible errors. When errors occur, the site should respond
with a specifically designed result that is helpful to the user without
revealing unnecessary internal details. Certain classes of errors should
be logged to help detect implementation flaws in the site and/or hacking
attempts. Very few sites have any intrusion detection capabilities in
their web application, but it is certainly conceivable that a web
application could track repeated failed attempts and generate alerts.
Note that the vast majority of web application attacks are never
detected because so few sites have the capability to detect them.
Therefore, the prevalence of web application security attacks is likely
to be seriously underestimated.
