---

title: Injection Flaws
layout: col-sidebar
author:
contributors:
tags:
auto-migrated: 1
permalink: /Injection_Flaws

---

{% include writers.html %}

## Description

Injection flaws allow attackers to relay malicious code through an
application to another system. These attacks include calls to the
operating system via system calls, the use of external programs via
shell commands, as well as calls to backend databases via SQL (i.e., SQL
injection). Whole scripts written in Perl, Python, and other languages
can be injected into poorly designed applications and executed. Any time
an application uses an interpreter of any type there is a danger of
introducing an injection vulnerability.

Many web applications use operating system features and external
programs to perform their functions. Sendmail is probably the most
frequently invoked external program, but many other programs are used as
well. When a web application passes information from an HTTP request
through as part of an external request, it must be carefully scrubbed.
Otherwise, the attacker can inject special (meta) characters, malicious
commands, or command modifiers into the information and the web
application will blindly pass these on to the external system for
execution.

SQL injection is a particularly widespread and dangerous form of
injection. To exploit a SQL injection flaw, the attacker must find a
parameter that the web application passes through to a database. By
carefully embedding malicious SQL commands into the content of the
parameter, the attacker can trick the web application into forwarding a
malicious query to the database. These attacks are not difficult to
attempt and more tools are emerging that scan for these flaws. The
consequences are particularly damaging, as an attacker can obtain,
corrupt, or destroy database contents.

Injection vulnerabilities can be very easy to discover and exploit, but
they can also be extremely obscure. The consequences of a successful
injection attack can also run the entire range of severity, from trivial
to complete system compromise or destruction. In any case, the use of
external calls is quite widespread, so the likelihood of an application
having an injection flaw should be considered high.

## Environments Affected

Every web application environment allows the execution of external
commands such as system calls, shell commands, and SQL requests. The
susceptibility of an external call to command injection depends on how
the call is made and the specific component that is being called, but
almost all external calls can be attacked if the web application is not
properly coded.

## Examples

1.  A malicious parameter could modify the actions taken by a system
    call that normally retrieves the current user’s file to access
    another user’s file (e.g., by including path traversal “../”
    characters as part of a filename request). Additional commands could
    be tacked on to the end of a parameter that is passed to a shell
    script to execute an additional shell command (e.g., “; rm –r \*”)
    along with the intended command.
2.  SQL queries could be modified by adding additional ‘constraints’ to
    a where clause (e.g., “OR 1=1”) to gain access to or modify
    unauthorized data.

## How to Determine If You Are Vulnerable

The best way to determine if your applications are vulnerable to
injection attacks is to search the source code for all calls to external
resources (e.g., system, exec, fork, Runtime.exec, SQL queries, or
whatever the syntax is for making requests to interpreters in your
environment). Note that many languages have multiple ways to run
external commands. Developers should review their code and search for
all places where input from an HTTP request could possibly make its way
into any of these calls. You should carefully examine each of these
calls to be sure that the protection steps outlined below are followed.

## How to Protect Yourself

The simplest way to protect against injection is to avoid accessing
external interpreters wherever possible. For many shell commands and
some system calls, there are language specific libraries that perform
the same functions. Using such libraries does not involve the operating
system shell interpreter, and therefore avoids a large number of
problems with shell commands.

For those calls that you must still employ, such as calls to backend
databases, you must carefully validate the data provided to ensure that
it does not contain any malicious content. You can also structure many
requests in a manner that ensures that all supplied parameters are
treated as data, rather than potentially executable content. The use of
stored procedures or prepared statements will provide significant
protection, ensuring that supplied input is treated as data. These
measures will reduce, but not completely eliminate the risk involved in
these external calls. You still must always validate such input to make
sure it meets the expectations of the application in question. For more
details on how to specifically defend against SQL Injection, please
refer to OWASP's [SQL Injection Prevention Cheat
Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/SQL_Injection_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html).

Another strong protection against injection attacks is to ensure that
the web application runs with only the privileges it absolutely needs to
perform its function. So you should not run the webserver as root or
access a database as DBADMIN, otherwise an attacker can abuse these
administrative privileges granted to the web application. Some of the
J2EE environments allow the use of the Java sandbox, which can prevent
the execution of system commands.

If an external command must be used, any user information that is being
inserted into the command should be rigorously checked. Mechanisms
should be put in place to handle any possible errors, timeouts, or
blockages during the call. All output, return codes and error codes from
the call should be checked to ensure that the expected processing
actually occurred. At a minimum, this will allow you to determine that
something has gone wrong. Otherwise, the attack may occur and never be
detected.

The OWASP Filters project is producing reusable components in several
languages to help prevent many forms of injection.

## References

  - OWASP [SQL Injection Prevention Cheat
    Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/SQL_Injection_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html)
  - OWASP [Developers Guide, Chapter on Data
    Validation](Data_Validation "wikilink")
  - OWASP [Testing Guide: Chapter on SQL Injection
    Testing](Testing_for_SQL_Injection_\(OWASP-DV-005\) "wikilink")
  - OWASP [Code Review Guide: Chapter on SQL
    Injection](Reviewing_Code_for_SQL_Injection "wikilink")
  - OWASP [Code Review Guide: Chapter on Command
    Injection](Reviewing_Code_for_OS_Injection "wikilink")
  - [How to Build an HTTP Request Validation
    Engine](How_to_Build_an_HTTP_Request_Validation_Engine_for_Your_J2EE_Application "wikilink")
    (J2EE validation with Stinger)
  - [Have Your Cake and Eat It
    Too](Have_Your_Cake_and_Eat_It_Too "wikilink") (.NET validation)
  - [NOSQL-injection](http://erlend.oftedal.no/blog/?blogid=110)
