---

title: Secure Cookie Flag
layout: col-sidebar
author:
contributors:
auto-migrated: 1
permalink: /controls/SecureFlag

---

{% include writers.html %}

# Overview

The secure flag is an option that can be set by the application server
when sending a new cookie to the user within an HTTP Response. The
purpose of the secure flag is to prevent cookies from being observed by
unauthorized parties due to the transmission of a the cookie in clear
text.
To accomplish this goal, browsers which support the secure flag will
only send cookies with the secure flag when the request is going to a
HTTPS page. Said in another way, the browser will not send a cookie with
the secure flag set over an unencrypted HTTP request.
By setting the secure flag, the browser will prevent the transmission of
a cookie over an unencrypted channel.

# Setting the Secure Flag

Following sections describes setting the Secure Flag in respective
technologies.

## Java

### Servlet 3.0 (Java EE 6)

Sun Java EE supports secure flag in Cookie interface since version 6
(Servlet class version
3)[1](http://java.sun.com/javaee/6/docs/api/javax/servlet/http/Cookie.html#setSecure%28boolean%29),
also for session cookies
(JSESSIONID)[2](http://java.sun.com/javaee/6/docs/api/javax/servlet/SessionCookieConfig.html#setSecure%28boolean%29).
Methods *setSecure* and *isSecure* can be used to set and check for
secure value in cookies.

#### web.xml

Servlet 3.0 (Java EE 6) introduced a standard way to configure secure
attribute for the session cookie, this can be done by applying the
following configuration in web.xml

```
<session-config>
  <cookie-config>
  <secure>`true`</secure>
  </cookie-config>
</session-config>
```

### Tomcat

In **Tomcat 6** if the first request for session is using *https* then
it automatically sets secure attribute on session cookie.

### Setting it as a custom header

For **older versions** the workaround is to rewrite JSESSIONID value
using and setting it as a custom header. The drawback is that servers
can be configured to use a different session identifier than JSESSIONID.

`String sessionid = request.getSession().getId();`
`response.setHeader("SET-COOKIE", "JSESSIONID=" + sessionid + "; secure");`

### Environment consideration

With this flag always set, sessions won't work in
environments(development/test/etc.) that may use http.
SessionCookieConfig
[3](http://java.sun.com/javaee/6/docs/api/javax/servlet/SessionCookieConfig.html#setSecure%28boolean%29)
interface or setting custom
header[4](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/SecureFlag#Setting_it_as_a_custom_header)
trick can be leveraged to configure setting of this flag differently for
each environment and can be driven by application configuration.

## ASP.NET

Set the following in Web.config: <httpCookies requireSSL="true" />

For some objects that have a requireSSL property, like the forms
Authentication Cookie, set the requireSSL="true" flag in the web.config
for that specific element. For example: 

     <code><authentication mode="Forms"></code>
       <code><forms loginUrl="member_login.aspx"</code>
              <code>cookieless="UseCookies"</code>
              <code>'''requireSSL="true"'''</code>
              <code>path="/MyApplication" /></code>
     <code></authentication></code>  

Which will enable the secure flag on the Forms Authentication cookie, as well as checking that the http request is coming to the server over SSL/TLS connection. Note that in case TLS is offloaded to a load balancer, the requireSSL solution wouldn't work.
 
Alternatively, the cookies can be set to secure programmatically using the following code by adding a EndRequest event handler to the Global.asax.cs file:
    protected void Application_EndRequest(Object sender, EventArgs e) {
        // Iterate through any cookies found in the Response object.
        foreach (string cookieName in Response.Cookies.AllKeys) {
            Response.Cookies[cookieName]?.Secure = true;
        }
    } 

## PHP

For session cookies managed by PHP, the flag is set either permanently
in php.ini [PHP manual on
*SecureFlag*](http://php.net/manual/en/session.configuration.php#ini.session.cookie-secure)
through the parameter:

`session.cookie_secure = True`

or in and during a script via the function
[5](http://pl.php.net/manual/en/function.session-set-cookie-params.php):

```
void session_set_cookie_params ( int $lifetime  [, string $path  [, string $domain  
                                  [, bool $secure= false  [, bool $httponly= false  ]]]] )
```

For application cookies a parameter in setcookie() sets Secure flag
[6](http://pl.php.net/setcookie):

```
bool setcookie ( string $name  [, string $value  [, int $expire= 0  [, string $path  
                 [, string $domain  [, bool $secure= false  [, bool $httponly= false  ]]]]]] )
```

# Testing for the Secure Flag

Verifying that a web site sets this flag on any particular cookie is
easy. Using an intercepting proxy, like [ZAP](ZAP "wikilink"), you can
capture each response from the server and examine any Set-Cookie headers
it includes to see if the secure flag is set on the cookie.

# Related Articles

  - [Testing for Cookie
    Attributes](Testing_for_cookies_attributes_\(OTG-SESS-002\) "wikilink")
  - <http://www.troyhunt.com/2011/11/owasp-top-10-for-net-developers-part-9.html>

[Category:Control](Category:Control "wikilink")
